Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, fantasy,
horror film called “Legion.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
It is early morning, two days before Christmas,
when a man, appearing bloodied, falls from
the sky.
The man, Michael, takes off his clothes, and
wings emerge from his back.
He takes a large knife, cutting into his flesh,
removing his wings.
He screams in agony as a halo appears above
his head, descending to a collar around his
neck.
As the halo wraps around his collar, it falls
off.
He breaks into a warehouse and starts mending
his wounds.
He then heads to a room full of guns, gathering
large caliber firearms.
A pair of police officers patrolling the neighborhood
run into an explosion, and Michael emerges
from the flames.
The cops aim their guns at Michael, telling
him to drop his bags.
Their radios start sounding off several emergency
calls, and Michael hears it.
He says it has begun, and there isn’t much
time.
One of the cops approaches Michael, but Michael
overpowers him.
The other cop suddenly starts convulsing,
his head moving unnaturally fast before stopping.
The cop’s eyes turn large and black; his
teeth sharpened to spikes.
He begins speaking in a disembodied voice,
telling Michael he has disobeyed orders.
Michael answers he’s following his own orders,
and the cop declares that Michael would die
with the child.
The cop starts shooting, but Michael doges
out of the way, shooting back.
The cop falls, and Michael drives away, the
lights shutting off as he goes by.
A young man, Jeep, awakens early in the morning,
and a young pregnant lady, Charlie, calls
to him.
They sit together, and Charlie asks Jeep if
he’s had another bad dream.
Jeep says yes, and Charlie tells him he needs
to worry less about his father.
Jeep says the only thing he worries about
is her, and Charlie teases him, saying he’s
concerned about a pregnant woman with a baby
he isn’t the father of.
Charlie says the baby would have a new family
in a month as she’s not prepared to be a
mother yet.
Jeep offers to help her raise the child together,
but Charlie tells him he needs to stop worrying
about her.
Later in the day, Bob, Jeep’s father, opens
up his diner and messes with the television
to get better reception.
A man with a hook hand, Percy, teases Bob.
A rebellious young woman, Audrey, stands by
the jukebox machine, and her mother, Sandra,
expresses her distaste for the way Audrey
is dressed.
Sandra’s husband, Howard, annoyed by Sandra’s
rant, tells Audrey what Sandra thinks, and
Audrey snaps back with a sarcastic remark.
Kyle, enjoying his drive, sees the nearest
car service is in fifty miles.
He considers stopping at the diner.
He sees a pregnant Charlie smoking, greeting
her a merry Christmas.
He then asks for directions and realizes he’s
way off course.
Charlie and Kyle then enter the diner, where
an impatient Sandra hounds Howard about leaving.
Kyle asks to use Bob’s phone, and Howard
asks Bob when their car would get fixed, saying
they’ve waited too long.
Bob checks on Jeep and sees he’s not working
on the car but is busy polishing a crib for
Charlie’s baby.
Jeep walks out, and Bob goes after him, telling
him he needs to stop chasing after Charlie.
Jeep answers, saying he’s been having terrible
nightmares about Charlie, with horrible things
happening to her over and over.
He says he feels an overpowering sense to
take care of Charlie.
Bob thinks Jeep is making a mistake chasing
after Charlie and thinks Jeep would be better
off leaving the diner in search of a better
life.
Bob goes back into the diner and sees the
television had lost reception again.
He tries fixing it up, but he only gets an
emergency broadcast signal.
Percy checks his radio, and he hears the same
thing from all frequencies.
Everyone listens worriedly as the monotonous
emergency broadcast ringing fills the diner.
In Bob’s office, Kyle finally connects a
call with his ex-wife, saying he’d arrive
the next day for their divorce signing.
He demands to speak with his son, but the
call cuts off.
He tries redialling, but the phone lines are
now dead.
A frail older woman steps into the diner with
a big smile on her face.
Charlie takes her order, and the woman starts
speaking with Sandra.
Charlie serves the woman her order, and the
woman asks Charlie about her baby.
She asks about the father and asks Charlie
how she would manage to raise the baby independently.
Charlie says she can take care of herself,
but the woman tells her the baby would burn.
Charlie is taken aback, but the old woman
repeats what she said, now with more profanity.
Everyone in the diner hears this, and they
all look at the old lady.
Charlie storms away, and the woman happily
devours her meal, now being swarmed by flies.
She then says all babies are going to burn.
Sandra tries talking to the woman, but the
woman fires back, insulting Sandra.
Howard gets up to speak to the old woman,
but she bites his neck, taking a big chunk
of flesh.
Percy throws a frying pan at the woman, her
neck cracking back, but she gets up as if
unaffected.
The woman then jumps up and starts crawling
on the ceiling.
Bob gets a shotgun and starts shooting at
the woman.
The woman slaps Bob away, and Jeeo gets the
shotgun but hesitates to pull the trigger.
The woman flies towards him, her feet sliding
across the floor.
The woman suddenly falls dead after Kyle shoots
her several times.
Everyone in the diner rushes to take care
of Howard, who has now lost a considerable
amount of blood.
Kyle and Percy get Howard and his family to
Kyle’s car, and they start driving to the
hospital.
They run into what appears to be a cloud but
is a massive swarm of locusts.
Kyle’s car returns and Bob meets them rushing
back in and sees a massive swarm of locusts
flying overhead, blocking out the sun.
The men then take the old woman’s body to
throw it out and see a police car approaching.
The police car stops, and Michael emerges.
Bob aims the gun at Michael, telling him to
stay away.
Bob then explains the rationale for his behavior.
Michael seems unfazed by Bob’s story and
realizes Bob and the rest have no clue what
is happening to the world.
Michael grabs the weapon from Bob, pointing
it at Bob’s head.
Percy steps out, trying to resolve the confrontation.
Michael considers the situation and tells
them more people similar to the old woman
would be arriving soon.
He hands Bob back his shotgun and gives everyone
a firearm, even Charlie, but he tells her
to refrain from doing anything brave.
They all head into the diner and barricade
the doors.
Night falls, and Michael leads the men to
the roof to get a better vantage point of
their enemy.
They hear an ice cream truck approaching,
and a tall, lanky man exits the ice cream
truck.
When he sees the men, he lets out a guttural
screech before his limbs start stretching
out.
It charges at the men, and they start shooting
until it dies.
They see more cars approaching, and Michael
orders them to shoot.
The vehicles then stop, and the drivers all
step out and start walking towards the diner.
Michael orders them to keep firing, telling
them the targets are no longer people.
One of the attackers bursts in through the
windows and starts dragging Howard away.
Sandra, Audrey, and Charlie all dive in to
help, but another attacker grabs Charlie,
excited to see he’s found her.
Michael steps in, slicing the man’s arm
off.
He shoots at the windows, and the attackers
start backing away.
Michael then grabs a frantic Sandra and tells
her Howard is dead.
Michael is disappointed in Charlie and reminds
her not to do anything brave.
The men head back down, and Bob demands an
explanation for what’s happening.
Michael reveals to everyone that God has become
angry and has ordered the extermination of
the human race.
He explains that the attackers they fought
off are mere vessels possessed by angels.
Everyone is in disbelief, saying they’ve
never heard of angels doing such a thing.
Jeep asks how Michael has such a vast knowledge
regarding their enemy, and Michael reveals
that he used to be on the angels’ side.
Bob interjects, saying the whole thing is
preposterous and expressing his nonbelief
in God.
Michael says God reciprocates Bob’s feelings,
also losing faith and belief in humans.
Michael then says his sole purpose is to protect
Charlie and her baby as her child is humanity’s
only hope for survival.
Michael says he doesn’t care what they believe
in, but the fact remains that the attackers
outside want them all dead, especially Charlie
and her unborn child.
Jeep chats with Michael, asking him his origin.
Michael says he was a general in God’s army
and decided to defy God when God gave him
an order he didn’t believe in.
Michael says God had lost faith, but he had
not.
Jeep asks Michael how he has maintained faith.
Michael says that even though the world is
filled with hatred and darkness, he still
sees glimpses of hope in people who refuse
to give up and surrender, people who do not
bow in the face of loss, people like Jeep.
Michael recalls his time back in the heavens,
the moment he was given the order he defied.
Gabriel tells Michael that humans have brought
judgment on themselves.
Michael says it an angel’s duty to guide
humans, but Gabriel says it is their higher
duty to obey the Almighty.
Michael knows that he is right within his
heart, as God made his heart with all of God’s
love, but Gabriel says Michael is too late,
as the other to exterminate the humans had
been given.
Michael watches as scores of angels fill the
skies.
Sandra wakes up the following day hearing
a strange noise.
She walks to the back of the diner, hearing
Howard’s sobs.
She peeks through the backdoor and sees Howard
crucified upside down, full of boils, calling
for her help.
Kyle and Audrey are unsuccessful at keeping
her inside and she runs out.
Sandra nears Howard but Howard bursts, spewing
out acid.
Percy gets to Sandra in the nick of time,
shielding her from the blast.
Percy carries her back to the diner before
collapsing to the floor.
Percy’s back had been scalded clean to the
bone.
Sandra is tied to a chair while Audrey tries
to feed her.
Sandra then blames Audrey for everything happening
to them, telling Audrey she has ruined everything.
Later, Audrey switches through radio stations
until she hits a frequency with someone broadcasting.
The broadcast speaks of several pockets of
survivors fighting back the possessed, but
Michael says they can’t risk leaving as
it would only make Charlie an easier target.
Charlie later chats with Jeep, remembering
when she almost had the baby aborted before
backing out at the last minute.
She believed she could go back whenever she
wanted, but it got to a point where the doctor
could no longer perform the abortion, and
she ended up stuck with the baby.
This then led to her hating the child.
The lights turn back on, and a car arrives
at the diner, trying to get a gas refill.
Kyle and Audrey prepare to shoot, but they
see it’s a father with his son.
A gang of troublemakers then show up, running
the dad over and taking the kid.
Kyle jumps down to help the kid, shooting
at the men.
He gets to the kid and starts carrying him
back.
Bob removes the barricade, eager to help,
but Michael aims the gun at him and threatens
to shoot if he continues.
Outside, the kid is revealed to be another
possessed person as it bites down Kyle’s
neck.
Audrey then jumps down to help but runs out
of bullets and starts getting swarmed.
Charlie decides to take matters into her own
hands when she sees Michael isn’t helping.
Not wanting to bring harm to Charlie, Michael
agrees to retrieve Audrey.
Michael steps out and makes quick work of
the attackers, using the gasoline pump as
a flamethrower.
He then takes Audrey, and they run back into
the diner, barely escaping the explosion.
Charlie runs to get water but sees the kid
has made in to the diner.
The kid comes at her with a knife, but Charlie
manages to shield herself until the kid’s
knife slips and slices off his fingers.
Charlie kicks the kid away, and the lights
go out again.
The kid suddenly grabs Bob, but Michael pulls
him away, and Jeep shoots the possessed kid.
Unfortunately, the stress has gotten to Charlie,
and she goes into labor.
Charlie begins giving birth, and they hear
a loud continuous horn blasting from the skies.
Jeep and Bob are on the roof and see the horde
of possessed awaiting them.
Charlie keeps pushing until the cries of an
infant echo through the silence.
Audrey shows the infant to Sandra, but Sandra
is trying to find a way to break free of her
restraints.
Charlie asks if they are safe, and Michael
says no, but now, at least, the child would
have a chance to live and lead humanity.
The possessed hear the infant’s wails and
start crying too.
The horn blasts again, and a winged creature
appears to be descending from the sky.
Michael says God had sent down Gabriel to
finish the mission that had initially been
given to Michael.
Jeep realizes that the order Michael disobeyed
must have been the order to prevent the child
from being born.
Charlie demands an explanation, and Michael
admits that he was indeed tasked with eliminating
the baby.
But he also reveals that the baby was never
supposed to be born.
The future has now been unwritten, and the
Will of God had changed.
Charlie takes the baby from Audrey, but Sandra
snatches it away.
Sandra intends to give the baby over to the
possessed so that they’d leave them alone.
Gabriel nears, and the horns get louder.
The doors burst open, and Michael shoots Sandra.
Jeep dives to catch the baby but comes face-to-face
with Gabriel.
Gabriel then smites Jeep with his mace, but
Jeep rolls away.
Bob tries shooting Gabriel, but Gabriel is
too fast, using his wings as shields.
Gabriel then slices through Bob’s stomach.
Michael stops Jeep from helping, telling him
he must leave with Charlie to keep the baby
safe by following the instructions.
Michael, Audrey, and Charlie slowly make their
way to the police car, and all the possessed
stop and let them pass.
Gabriel calls Michael God’s rebellious son,
and Michael points out how Gabriel had always
been the one eager to please their father.
Gabriel is surprised to see Michael without
wings and tells him his disobedience will
be punished.
Michael says what happens to him is irrelevant
as the child had already been born.
Michael asks Gabriel for a truce, but Gabriel
rejects, saying there’s no other way.
The two then prepare to fight as Jeeps drives
away, headed for the settlement they heard
on the radio.
Michael uses his guns, shooting at Gabriel,
and Gabriel begins thrashing and moving about,
trying to hit Michael.
Gabriel wounds Michael using his wings, but
Michael gets behind Gabriel, choking him into
submission.
Gabriel then takes his mace and stabs Michael.
Michael falls to the ground, and Gabriel sheds
a tear as he watches his brother die.
Micheal then illuminates before disintegrating.
As Jeep drives, he notices markings appearing
on his forearm and understands these are the
instructions Michael was pertaining to.
Gabriel finds Bob still alive, but Bob had
been releasing gas, letting it fill the room
before igniting it with his lighter.
Gabriel flies away, but a massive fireball
engulfs the diner along with the possessed
outside.
Jeep, Charlie, and Audrey think they’ve
escaped when Gabriel smashes into them.
Gabriel grabs hold of their car, and he almost
gets a hold of the baby.
Jeep accelerates, and Audrey grabs hold of
Gabriel.
Audrey shouts for Jeep to step on the brakes,
and he does so, launching Audrey and Gabriel
forward.
The car then crashes into a ditch.
The baby and Charlie miraculously survive,
and Jeep leads them up a mountain.
Gabriel then appears, cornering Charlie, but
Jeep dives into Gabriel, pushing both of them
off a cliff.
Gabriel prepares to strike down Jeep, but
Michael appears, saving Jeep.
Gabriel can't believe his eyes, as Michael
had openly disobeyed their creator but had
once again been granted eternal life.
Michael then boasts, as only Gabriel gave
God what he wanted, but Michael gave God what
he needed.
Gabriel tries to strike Michael, but Michael
is too fast, slicing through Gabriel before
he notices.
Michael then spares a defeated Gabriel.
Michael departs, telling Jeep he is the true
protector.
Jeep asks if they’ll meet again, and Michael
says to keep his faith alive.
Jeep and Charlie then find the surviving settlement
and prepare themselves to raise humanity’s
last hope for survival.